#PSCL-Summer2023

During the Summer of 2023, I was a Baseball Statistician Intern for the Palm Springs Collegiate League, hosted by the Palm Springs Power Baseball Team. As an intern, one of my responsibilities entailed tracking in-game live stats using camera technology software, Flightscope, I'd then upload those stats onto a folder that I'd update after every game. Some of the in-game live stats that Flightscope would track include Pitch Speed, Pitch Launch (V), Pitch Launch (H), Pitch Spin, and Pitch Spin Direction. Utilizing these stats and what I saw from the pitcher, I'd dictate what the pitch type was. The average temperature high in Palm Springs, California, during this internship was 108°F. The camera technology was also not in the shade, so a problem we faced throughout was that the technology would overheat. This would cause us to have incomplete data during games, such that we'd have null values in place of pitch type or we'd have brief periods where we weren't able to track any pitch. Another one of my responsibilities was to clean up that messed up data and get rid of all of the NaN and null values inside of the data. I also had to remove duplicates that had the same name but had something extra like a jersey number (#12), because it was one player that had the name but there were two separate ID's. Once I finished cleaning up the data, I uploaded the data set as a csv to the PSCL Scouting Report that was created in Looker Studio. Inside of the report, there was a section for batters and pitchers. In the pitchers section, there was a table that showcased the maximum velocity and spin rate, and the average velocity and spin rate for either the league or an individual player. There was also a pitch distribution pie chart, and a pitch result bar graph that included balls, called strikes, fouls, hits, etc. For the hitters section, there were two tables: one that showed the max exit velocity, average launch angle, and average exit velocity for each player, and one that did the same but for each type of pitch instead.

FlightScope responsibilities: managed roster, ensuring data accuracy, and organized storage • Utilized Python for thorough player data analysis • Produced detailed reports with charts and statistical insights • Tracked live in-game stats using camera technology - Flightscope
